From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
72 recorded Thursday, July 5th to
2007. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by teller. Rad
controls. The most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms,
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by slash
and software red carpet subscriptions.
The most comprehensive solution for
adding connectivity to your.net and
asp.net applications with components for
every major internet protocol online@wwwdotnsoftwaredotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading
government developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott and
Kroll discussed ways to become
a better developer. Hi, this
is Carl Franklin. You're listening to
Hansel minutes from Hanselman it's
dot com. Scott is here.
I am here. All is
right with the world. Hi
Scott, how are you, sir?
I'm well, what's up today?
What are you going to
do over the next six
months to be a better
developer? This is the question
that has been been posed.
I'm going to listen to
Hansel minutes every day that
I possibly can. And that
will just make you a
huge geek. This guy named
justice gray blogged about he's
going to read a developer
book every week for the
next 27 weeks. Ah, and
he listed all the books.
He's going to read with
a couple of slots open
for people to suggest. When
is he ever going to
write code? I don't know,
but he asks after listing
all of these books that
he's going to read, he
says, you know, the, the
trick is if you want
to accomplish a goal, you're
write it down. Which of
course we've talked about before
and he's talked about before,
but most importantly is share
it with other people, right?
Right. Can't just decide to
quit smoking and then tell
no one. So what he's
doing is he's saying I'm
going to be a better
developer and he's blogged about
it. So that's his share
it with someone else. And
then my buddy in Canada,
bill  has posted being
a better developer in six
months. And this is kind
of a blog meme. It
spreads around because they usually
usually asked to tag people,
you know, tag people like
tag, you're it kind of,
yeah, exactly. So the way
that you get these things
to spread, as you say,
you know, here are five
movies I want to see
and here's five people and
I want to hear about
their five movies. It's the
classic a pyramid scheme in
this case here, though, he's
saying here's what I'm going
to do to be a
better developer for the next
six months. And in the
tagging, he's tagged myself and
a couple of other folks
like Andy Raheen and Jeremy Miller,
Jeremy Palermo, Rocky Locka. And
I'm sure that this will
spread all over the place.
So by the time that
this episode of Hansel minutes
has come out, everyone in
the internet has posted what
they're going to do for
the next six months. Not
very good, but I thought
it was a pretty darn
good question. And it got
me thinking about that kind
of stuff. You know, we've
discussed Ruby before and how
this year Ruby was the
language that, that I was
going to try to teach
myself in order to be
a better, better developer. And
it, it seems that if
you, if you want to
be a better developer, the
really the first step is
making the decision, like accepting
the problem. What is the,
what are the tools? 12
steps, the 12 steps to
being a Becker develop. Yeah.
First one is accepting you
have a problem, right. You
know, I'm not nearly the
developer that I think I
am, that I, that I
would want to be right.
My name is Carl Franklin and
I suck as a developer.
Carl. Yeah. It's a, it's
kind of like that, but
he, bill has a very
good outline here. And he
talks about reading is one,
right? So he's reading books
and people are always emailing
me and asking about what
books they should read to
become a better developer. And
I think that's a part
of it. But for me,
it's less about reading books
about development. I'm realizing this
is just for me, everyone
has their different learning style
for me. It's about reading
other people's code. Cause I
really feel like if you
want to be a good
writer, like say you're writing
novels or fiction, I think
the way to be a
good writer is to read
as much as you can.
Yeah, exactly. So I'm finding
that I become a better
developer when I read more
of other people's code. I'm
totally in agreement with you
100%. Yes. In fact, I
learned a lot in my
earliest days of teaching myself
programming just by reading other
people's code, good code, not
other people's bad code, not
other people's bad code. You
learn the bad habits from
that. Well, so I think
that the trick is finding
good code to read. Right?
Sure. Now, certainly in, in,
in one's reading, they can
read good code and bad
code just as you can
read good fiction and bad
fiction. But you know, if
you really want to be
a great writer of fiction,
you're going to want to
read as many good books
as possible. So I needed
to find a pile of
really good code. So then
what is good code, right?
Is it beautiful code? Is
it successful code? Is it
code with a lot of
coverage? And then I figured
that code that is good
is code that is used
right. Code that a lot
of people are using code
that is in a successful
project code that runs yeah.
Code the runs. And this
is not necessarily academically beautiful
code, but it is code
that is successful because people
use it. Right. So, you
know, the, maybe the folks
that are on the projects
like, you know, RSS, bandit
or DAS or subtext, don't
think their code is very
beautiful. As someone who works
on dusk blog, I can
assure you that when you
have looked into the code
base of dusk blog, you've
looked into the face of
evil, but it is, but
it works. And it works
for us and we enjoy
it and we have a
good time and we do
some neat stuff. And then
we sell our souls and
then we do some neat
stuff and we sell our
souls. So one of the
things that I'm going to
do to make myself a
better developer is spend some
time reading, not just using,
but reading some of the
code that I think is,
is pretty slick. I'm going
to spend some time looking
at the castle project. You
talked a little bit about
monorail, right? When you talked
to the guys up at
Ellucian software in Seattle, there,
I've decided that for the
next six months, during the
next six months, I'm going
to spend some time looking
at the whole castle project
stack. That means monorail. That
means the aversion of control
container. And I think we're
going to do a show
in the next week or
two on inversion of control
and dependency injection. I think
it's an important topic we
haven't covered yet. The Windsor,
the Windsor container, also the
dependency injection object builder stuff
that came in the enterprise
library. Right. I'm going to
read this code, I'm going
to try to understand what's
going on. Not just skim
it, but really try to,
you know, grok it, try
to drink it in. Yeah.
I think the enterprise library,
the stuff that Microsoft patterns
and practices released, sometimes that
gets a bad rap. It's
a different kind of code,
right? I mean, it's still
good, but it has a
different feel just like different
writers in a fiction, have
a different, a different vibe.
Well, and then also there's
so much code there and
so many different categories that
you really can't consider it
all as one piece. Yeah,
definitely. And you can, if
you know the guy Isn't
the team, you can tell
who was in, where as
they try to keep things
looking the same. Right. You
know, I think I learned
a lot from taking a
look at the code within
reflector of the base class
framework, you know, looking at.net
and kind of, you're not
necessarily reading the code because
you're looking at it decompile,
but you're, you're gleaning the
programmer's intent by looking at
what reflector thinks, you know,
they meant, and, and that,
that can help in design
a frameworks. But I want
to sit down and read
pro you know, I wanna
look at subtext, flex team
stuff, very well thought of,
and I think there's a
lot of stuff that the
DAS blog team can learn
from subtext. And I want
to check that out. Where
would you think would be
a good place to find
a lot of good, good
code to read Carl? I
mean, you mentioned them, the
enterprise library is a great
place to start. The, the,
anything that's a public domain
kind of open source project
is also a great thing
because what's good about that
is you get many eyes
looking at and revising code,
you know, and, and stuff
that's open source tends to
be a little more, well,
you know, I won't say
polished, but the guys who
are writing that the guys
and gals who were writing
that stuff, they know that
the eyes are looking at
it. So it's T it
tends to be more commented.
And it tends to be
thought out a little bit
more than just stuff that's
slapped together, that you could
coerce a developer into sharing
with you. Something wasn't meant
for public view. That's an
interesting perspective. I would, I
would partially agree. I would
say that when you're writing
a framework that people are
using, like if you're writing
on the castle project or
you're writing patterns, practices, if
you're writing code, that is
definitely going to be reused
by other folks as code,
I think you're right. You
spend a lot more time
making it clean. I think
if you're writing an app
like an RSS reader, maybe
that you'd be more willing
to go nuts because it's
the end user who wants
the experience. And beauty is
secondary. Yeah. Another thing to
do is to take a
look at your third party
tools. And it's some of
the samples that come with
those tools. Yeah. Those are,
those are usually done with
an eye towards, you know,
we wanna, we want to
do something that's happening in
the mainstream and we need
to show them The right
way to do it. Yeah,
definitely. So I think reading
is a big part of
this. I'm also going to
be reading a book called
what is it called? It's
something it's F sharp, hang
on a second. Is it
practical? You know, it seems
like every book these days
is either practical, pragmatic, professional.
Powerful. Do you want to
say that again? No. Hang
on. Because this is, this
is a good thing to
keep in here because I
can never remember. Is it,
is it the professional one,
the practical, one of the
pragmatic one that is the
book I want to read.
Let me check my bag
here. Something that starts with
P I'm pulling this out
of my bag. It is
foundations foundations of F sharp
reading this book by Robert
Pickering. It's an a press
book. These are the yellow
books. Okay. F sharp is
a, a functional programming language
kind of based on like
ML, but it lets you
use a dotnet front end
framework. And it has a
performance kind of profile, like,
like C-sharp, so it's really
fast, but it's got functional
programming perspective. It's comparative programming
perspectives. It's got Audrey jointed.
And I got into this
because I had put up
a, a list of books
on my blog that was
called like top language agnostic
programming books to read. And
one of the guys in
the, in the comments call
me on it. And he
said, this is not language
agnostic. You've described a bunch
of object oriented books to
what about the functional programming
paradigms? You know, there's a
lot more out there than
just a if then else.
And it got me thinking,
and then I saw this
book on F sharp and
I said, well, it's got
a, it's got the little
sharp sign in it, then
it must be good. Right.
It's it's F sharp. So
it must be a D
E F it must be
two, three times better than
she sharp. I like the
key of F sharp. Exactly.
You know, Sharp, minor, quite
a quite brooding. Yeah. Well,
if, sometimes it's difficult for
me, at least when you
do, you know, kind of,
I wouldn't say drink the
Microsoft Kool-Aid, but sip it
at least to a, to
go kind of totally the
opposite direction and go download
something like Haskell or hugs
and start to do that
kind of work because in
the back of your mind,
you're thinking, well, how am
I going to use this
in the real world? Right.
I think it's, this is
just for me, at least
perhaps, but if I want
to be a better developer,
yes, I would like to
be more well rounded, but
at the same time, I
need to make a use
of the things that I
do on the side, in
the real world. Right. So
doing Ruby on rails on
the side, I still feel
like I can use that
in the real world. Learning
Haskell or squeak, you know,
at this point is squeak,
squeak, squeak. You check. We'll
do a show on squeak.
Squeak. Just tell me what
it is. It's a smalltalk
environment. Google. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
Yes. And how is that
useful? Yeah, no squeak is
a, a is a graphical
environments and open source, a
small talk 80 language that
was written in small talk.
And if you go to
squeak.org, you can check it
out. You say it's graphical.
So you can program with
kids. Oh, it's for kids.
I wouldn't say it's Or
kids, but it is, it
is, it's like a, it's
like an operating system, but
it's a, it's an environment
and your, your kids might
like it. Now. Of course,
I'm going to get in
trouble for saying it's for
kids, but it's, it's a
virtual machine. It's got a
lot of music and multimedia
things to use for educational
platforms. It's, it's, it's a,
it's a powerful thing. We'll
talk about it. I will
check that out. It's not
something that I would necessarily
use every day at work.
Okay. But I want to
be a better programmer. So
how do I balance that?
And as far as using
my time appropriately, so then
I saw F sharp and
I said, okay, well, it's
totally weird. It's totally out
there. It's totally not mainstream,
but it's, it's a Microsoft
research project it's supported. I
can use it in visual
studio. You know, it's funky
enough to help me spread,
spread the wings a little
bit stretch outside of my
comfort zone, but it's dot
net. So I can use
it today. So this was
kind of a first step
for, for me to go
kind of way out there
and learn something completely different.
Right? So F sharp was
a good compromise. So learning
to write F sharp is
going to be a part
of that. And the foundations
of F sharp book, I'm
about halfway through it. And
I'm actually enjoying it very
much. Cool. Now speaking, you
know, you, you and I
have done a lot of
speaking on the road and
that kind of stuff. Do
you think that that's a
thing that one could do
to be a better developer?
Bill said this on his
blog, that he thought that
that was a useful thing.
I'm not so sure. I
think there are better uses
of your time. If you're
trying to be a better
developer than speaking, I would
say that, you know, all
of these experiences help your
well-roundedness, but, you know, speaking
is typically where you find
several topics and you go
out and you hammer them
over and over and over
and over again, there's a
lot of repetition and you
don't always get feedback. You
know, you know, this was
right on, this was not
so right on you don't,
you don't always get it.
So you, you, you may
have these situations where you
go out and you say
something that somebody could take
the opposite position on, but
you don't know that because
you're just, it's one sided.
It's not a discussion. You
know what I mean? Right.
Yeah. So I would tend
to, I would tend to
think that a discussion would
be more beneficial than speaking.
Yeah. I think that speaking
people, sometimes people want to
speak at a local user's
group. I think those things
are great, speak at a
conference. And I encourage people
who want to do that,
to do that pub clubs,
You know, those things where
you get together. I find
that setting up a study
group at your company is
a really useful thing. Yeah.
We started doing a work
with type mock, you know,
after the mock objects framework.
And we try to select
a mocking objects framework for
us to use here at
Kirlian. So the way that
we did that is we
had a, a mocking object
study group, you know, meet,
meet a couple times a
week at lunch, Thinking of
meeting at lunch. We found
that a lot of people
are doing this with DNR
TV. They're watching one day
a week. They get their
developers together around a projector.
They have lunch and they
watch an hour long, a
conversation presentation, demo, whatever DNR
TV is, whatever you want
to call it. And then
after that, they spend another
half an hour discussing it.
That's a popular thing to
do. Yeah. I think that,
I think that's a good
example. So I think that
rather than speaking, I would
say hosting discussions. Yes. You
know, talking to people literally
go to lunch with somebody.
One of the things that
we've also been thinking about
doing, we've done a little
bit here, but we haven't
actually formalized it with, you
know, with HR and the
bosses is taking a bunch
of our devs are a
bunch of our developers out
to have lunch with other
developers at another company. That's
not in a competitive situation.
So it's almost like a
sister city kind of thing.
Right. So find a company
locally. That's not in your
space. Like, you know, you
do banking, they do insurance,
right? Give them this, you
know, you can all sign
NDAs all day long, but
sit down and compare notes.
I'll go to lunch with
darn near anybody. You know
what I'm saying? Sure. If
you buy me a sandwich,
I'll talk to you for
as long as it takes
me to eat that sandwich.
Last week, I had lunch
at, at panic, panic.com. Panic
is a constant award-winning Macintosh
developer shop. How did you
have lunch at a website?
And I had lunch at
the website at the store
of the website. I went
to college with Steve and
Frank, one of the founders
of panic. And they w
they want an Apple design
award. Again, this year. They
win them year after year.
And I went down and
saw their offices at, down
here in downtown Portland and
had lunch with my buddy,
Steven, who I went to
college with, and haven't seen
in awhile. And I said,
well, you've got to come
on on the show and
talk about the, you know,
Mac, because some of us
just don't get it. Right.
It'd be really interesting. So
we'll have him on the
show at some point in
the next couple of weeks
and that kind of stuff.
Having lunch with people outside
of your comfort zone, I
find to be really useful
way to become a better
developer. So how many Mac
developers does it take to
copy a file? I don't
know how many, what, what's
a file. Okay. How many
developers does it take to
copy of file on Vista?
I don't. You can Actually,
I don't know. I mean,
I don't know. I don't
know either. It's still calculated
To call me in an
hour. I'll tell you how
long it'll take. Oh, too
much fun. I just made
that one up anyway. There's
your fluff seconds for the
day. So what were we
talking about? How to be
a better developer? Yeah. Going
out to lunch with people
that are maybe outside of
your comfort zone, working on
things that you, you're not
working on, understanding how they
do their build servers, understanding
how they do their continuous
integration, you know, do they
do code coverage? How much
code coverage, talking to them
about their software development life
cycle? Do they do agile?
Do they do RUP right?
They do. Scrummerfall. Who knows?
And we don't have to
tell you that if you're
in a situation where you
don't have developers to bounce
ideas off of readily available,
that listening to podcasts is
another good way to be
a better developer. We hear
it all the time. It's
about being a part of
the conversation, you know? And
you brought up a really
good point. What about the
single person shop? What about
the guy who's listening to
this? Who's not driving to
work because he just has
to go downstairs, put his
slippers on, and now he's
at work. Right. And he's
the only developer within a
hundred square miles. Well, I
don't know about the, I
guess that's not what my
Gunder lawyer would be. The
only guy who's living in
a farm with a hundred
acres outside. I know quite
a few of them. Yeah.
How do those guys get
involved? They got to join
the conversation. I think if
you can go to a
nerd dinner or a pub
club, you gotta do it.
You got to get out
there. I think that if
I were working on my
own as a single person,
developer as a one man
team, or as a remote
team, the being a part
of the conversation is so
much more important. If you
can't stand up and walk
over to someone's cube, you
should have a lot of
people on your I M
list should have people on
Skype. You should go down
and sit at a, at
Starbucks, find out where the
other developers are. Is there
any such thing as a
developer chat room these days?
I mean, I know that
there are webcasts and things
like that, but, well, there
is the IRC, interestingly, internet
relay chat, IRC seems to
be coming back. There are
some people who are on
it might say it never
left, but more and more,
I'm seeing open source projects
that have a room dedicated
to their, their project. Interesting.
So you'll see people who
are enthusiastic about Ruby, who
will say, yeah, come visit
us on the Ruby, the
Ruby room, or the rails
room on a, on IRC.
And they'll just keep that
window open all the time.
Just kind of watching for,
for questions, for noobs, for
people who need help. And
that is their virtual chat
room. Interesting here in Portland,
we've got a thing called
cube space, which is kind
of neat. It's actually a
rent, a cube rent, a
cubicle. So it's a big,
giant open area with cubicles
and internet connectivity and phones
and faxes. And it's basically
a drop in and buy
an office for a day.
Wow. And independents can do
to have a little bit
more formal of an experience
than Starbucks, but still be
able to kick ideas around
and talk to other people.
Sounds good. Yeah. I think
being part of the conversation's
important, that's all about community.
So we've got reading, reading
as much code as you
can, reading books that you
think, you know, don't force
yourself to read a book.
If you don't think it's
gonna, I would agree. I
think you run the risk
of becoming too academic. You
really got to stay in
code as much as you
can. You know, I really
like books that have a
lot of code samples. I
definitely, you know, as much
as I wish I were
a person who could read
like design patterns and truly
like, love it and love
every minute of it. I
just, I got to see
the code. I think writing
is good. You know, getting
it out there, but writing
is part of being in
the conversation. Gee, you know,
we never said teaching. Yeah.
Teaching is a great way
to be a developer. I
mean, talking is what speaking
to, you know, doing a
presentation is one thing, but
actually teaching a class is
a great way to, to
sort of force yourself to
learn something that you might
not know. Right. You'll never
be a better data grid
expert than if you teach
it for eight hours a
day in a small class.
Yeah. Another way of course
is to get an intern.
This might be a fun,
a funny way to say,
how could I be a
better developer? Find an intern,
huh? I've got two interns,
two high school interns go
to your local high school,
go to your local community
college and bring in an
intern. Maybe you pay them
a stipend. Maybe you pay
them a, a, an hourly,
hourly fee. But this is
going to be a fresh
kind of open mind. Who's
going to drop into your
developer environment. You're going to
find out what works, what
doesn't, they're going to see
the real world. But it's
also going to expose aspects
of your process that maybe
don't work. Sure. Because you
get to see things through
their fresh eyes. Yep. Yeah.
They're going to ask questions
that are, are wide open
and like, wow. I never
thought about that. That does
suck. I don't know why
we do it that way.
Hmm. So yeah. Get an
intern because that involves all
of these things. It involves
community, it involves reading code,
their code, which might not
be good, but it's reading
code, helping them write, teach.
Yeah. That's a, that's a
good all around way. So
I think everyone should run
out and get an intern.
Awesome. Well, you know, we're
just about out of time
here. Any last minute things.
No, I on that list,
I think we covered it.
That sounds like a reading,
writing, speaking community, get an
intern, listen to podcasts, listen
to podcasts. So you knew
that already get on IRC,
get on chat. I'm more
of a Czech guy And
then an IRC guy. But
yeah. Talk, talk, talk, talk,
and talk and listen. All
right, Scott. Thanks a lot.
And we'll see you next
week on Hanselman. .